Welsh AMs worried about 'looking like muppets'
There is consternation among some AMs at a suggestion their title should change to MWPs (Member of the Welsh Parliament).
It has arisen because of plans to change the name of the assembly to the Welsh Parliament.
AMs across the political spectrum are worried it could invite ridicule.
One Labour AM said his group was concerned "it rhymes with Twp and Pwp."
For readers outside of Wales: In Welsh twp means daft and pwp means poo.
A Plaid AM said the group as a whole was "not happy" and has suggested alternatives.
A Welsh Conservative said his group was "open minded" about the name change, but noted it was a short verbal hop from MWP to Muppet.
In this context The Welsh letter w is pronounced similarly to the Yorkshire English pronunciation of the letter u.
The Assembly Commission, which is currently drafting legislation to introduce the name changes, said: "The final decision on any descriptors of what Assembly Members are called will of course be a matter for the members themselves."
The Government of Wales Act 2017 gave the Welsh assembly the power to change its name.
In June, the Commission published the results of a public consultation on the proposals which found broad support for calling the assembly a Welsh Parliament.
On the matter of the AMs' title, the Commission favoured Welsh Parliament Members or WMPs, but the MWP option received the most support in a public consultation.
AMs are apparently suggesting alternative options, but the struggle to reach consensus could be a headache for the Presiding Officer, Elin Jones, who is expected to submit draft legislation on the changes within weeks.
The legislation on the reforms will include other changes to the way the assembly works, including rules on disqualification of AMs and the design of the committee system.
AMs will get the final vote on the question of what they should be called when they debate the legislation.
Macedonians go to polls in referendum on changing country's name
Voters will vote Sunday on whether to change their country's name to the "Republic of North Macedonia."
The popular vote was set up in a bid to resolve a decades-long dispute with neighboring Greece, which has its own province called Macedonia.
Athens has long insisted that its northern neighbor's name represents a claim on its territory and has repeatedly objected to its membership bids for the EU and NATO.
Macedonian President Gjorge Ivanov, an opponent of the plebiscite on the name change, has said he will disregard the vote.
However, supporters of the referendum, including Prime Minister Zoran Zaev, argue that the name change is simply the price to pay to join the EU and NATO.
The Bells of St. Martin's Fall Silent as Churches in Harlem Struggle
"Historically, the old people I've talked to say there was a bar and a church on every corner," Mr. Adams said.
"Today, there's neither."
He said the disappearance of bars was understandable.
"People socialize in a different way" nowadays, he said.
"Bars are no longer neighborhood living rooms where people go on a regular basis."
As for churches, he worries that the money from selling assets will not last as long as leaders expect it to, "and sooner or later they'll be right back where they started."
Churches, he added, could be replaced by apartment buildings with condominiums filled with the kind of people who will not help the neighborhood's remaining sanctuaries.
"The overwhelming majority of people who buy condominiums in these buildings will be white," he said, "and therefore will hasten the day that these churches close altogether because it is unlikely that most of these people who move into these condominiums will become members of these churches."
Both churches were built by white congregations before Harlem became a black metropolis - Metropolitan Community in 1870, St. Martin's a decade later.
The original white Methodist congregation moved out in the 1930s.
A black congregation that had been worshiping nearby took title to the building.
St. Martin's was taken over by a black congregation under the Rev. John Howard Johnson, who led a boycott of retailers on 125th Street, a main street for shopping in Harlem, who resisted hiring or promoting blacks.
A fire in 1939 left the building badly damaged, but as Father Johnson's parishioners made plans to rebuild, they commissioned the carillon.
The Rev. David Johnson, Father Johnson's son and successor at St. Martin's, proudly called the carillon "the poor people's bells."
The expert who played the carillon in July called it something else: "A cultural treasure" and "an irreplaceable historical instrument."
The expert, Tiffany Ng of the University of Michigan, also noted that it was the first carillon in the world to be played by a black musician, Dionisio A. Lind, who moved to the larger carillon at the Riverside Church 18 years ago.
Mr. Merriweather said that St. Martin's did not replace him.
What has played out at St. Martin's over the last few months has been a complicated tale of architects and contractors, some brought in by the lay leaders of the church, others by the Episcopal diocese.
The vestry - the parish's governing body, made up of lay leaders - wrote the diocese in July with concerns that the diocese "would seek to pass along the costs" to the vestry, even though the vestry had not been involved in hiring the architects and contractors the diocese sent in.
Some parishioners complained of a lack of transparency on the diocese's part.
Shark injures 13-year-old on lobster dive in California
A shark attacked and injured a 13-year-old boy Saturday while he was diving for lobster in California on the opening day of lobster season, officials said.
The attack occurred just before 7 a.m. near Beacon's Beach in Encinitas.
Chad Hammel told KSWB-TV in San Diego he had been diving with friends for about half an hour Saturday morning when he heard the boy screaming for help and then paddled over with a group to help pull him out of the water.
Hammel said at first he thought it was just excitement of catching a lobster, but then he "realized that he was yelling, 'I got bit!
I got bit!'
His whole clavicle was ripped open," Hammel said he noticed once he got to the boy.
"I yelled at everyone to get out of the water: 'There's a shark in the water!'" Hammel added.
The boy was airlifted to Rady Children's Hospital in San Diego where he is listed in critical condition.
The species of shark responsible for the attack was unknown.
Lifeguard Capt. Larry Giles said at a media briefing that a shark had been spotted in the area a few weeks earlier, but it was determined not to be a dangerous species of shark.
Giles added the victim sustained traumatic injuries to his upper torso area.
Officials shut down beach access from Ponto Beach in Casablad to Swami's in Ecinitas for 48 hours for investigation and safety purposes.
Giles noted that there are more than 135 shark species in the area, but most are not considered dangerous.
Sainsbury's plans push into UK beauty market
Sainsbury's is taking on Boots, Superdrug and Debenhams with department store-style beauty aisles staffed with specialist assistants.
As part of a substantial push into the UK's £2.8bn beauty market, which is continuing to grow while fashion and homeware sales fall back, the larger beauty aisles will be tested out in 11 stores around the country and taken to more stores next year if it proves a success.
The investment in beauty comes as supermarkets hunt for ways to use up shelf space once sued for TVs, microwaves and homeware.
Sainsbury's said it would be doubling the size of its beauty offering to up to 3,000 products, including brands such as Revlon, Essie, Tweezerman and Dr. PawPaw for the first time.
Existing ranges from L'Oreal, Maybelline and Burt's Bees will also get more space with branded areas similar to those found in shops like Boots.
The supermarket is also relaunching its Boutique makeup range so that the majority of products are vegan-friendly - something increasingly demanded by younger shoppers.
In addition, perfume retailer the Fragrance Shop will be testing out concessions in two Sainsbury's stores, the first of which opened in Croydon, south London, last week while a second opens in Selly Oak, Birmingham, later this year.
Online shopping and a shift towards buying small amounts of food daily at local convenience stores means supermarkets are having to do more to persuade people to visit.
Mike Coupe, the chief executive of Sainsbury's, has said the outlets will look increasingly like department stores as the supermarket chain tries to fight back against the discounters Aldi and Lidl with more services and non-food.
Sainsbury's has been putting Argos outlets in hundreds of stores and has also introduced a number of Habitats since it bought both chains two years ago, which it says has bolstered grocery sales and made the acquisitions more profitable.
The supermarket's previous attempt to revamp its beauty and pharmacy departments ended in failure.
Sainsbury's tested a joint venture with Boots in the early 2000s, but the tie-up ended after a row over how to split the revenues from the chemist's stores in its supermarkets.
The new strategy comes after Sainsbury's sold its 281-store pharmacy business to Celesio, the owner of the Lloyds Pharmacy chain, for £125m, three years ago.
It said Lloyds would play a role in the plan, by adding an extended range of luxury skincare brands including La Roche-Posay and Vichy in four stores.
Paul Mills-Hicks, Sainsbury's commercial director, said: "We've transformed the look and feel of our beauty aisles to enhance the environment for our customers.
We've also invested in specially trained colleagues who will be on hand to offer advice.
Our range of brands is designed to suit every need and the alluring environment and convenient locations mean we're now a compelling beauty destination which challenges the old way of shopping."
Peter Jones 'furious' after Holly Willoughby pulls out of £11million deal
Dragons Den star Peter Jones left 'furious' after TV presenter Holly Willoughby pulls out of £11million deal with his lifestyle brand business to focus on her new contracts with Marks and Spencer and ITV
Willoughby has no time for their homewear and accessories brand Truly.
The pair's business had been likened to Gwyneth Paltrow's Goop brand.
This Morning presenter, 37, took to Instagram to announce she is leaving.
Holly Willoughby has left Dragons" Den star Peter Jones fuming by pulling out of their lucrative lifestyle brand business at the last minute - to focus on her own new bumper contracts with Marks & Spencer and ITV.
Sources say Jones was "furious" when TV's golden girl admitted during a tense meeting on Tuesday at the headquarters of his business empire in Marlow, Buckinghamshire, that her new deals - worth up to £1.5 million - meant she no longer had enough time to devote to their homewear and accessories brand Truly.
The business had been likened to Gwyneth Paltrow's Goop brand and was tipped to double Willoughby's estimated £11 million fortune.
As Willoughby, 37, took to Instagram to announce she was leaving Truly, Jones jetted out of Britain to head for one of his holiday homes.
A source said: "Truly was by far the top of Holly's priorities.
It was going to be her long-term future that would see her through the next couple of decades.
Her decision to pull out left everyone involved absolutely stunned.
Nobody could believe what was happening on Tuesday, it was so close to the launch.
There is a warehouse full of goods at the Marlow HQ which are ready to be sold."
Experts believe the departure of the This Morning presenter, who is among Britain's most bankable stars, could cost the firm millions due to hefty investment in products ranging from cushions and candles to clothing and homewear, and the potential for further delays to its launch.
And it could mean the end of a long friendship.
Mother-of-three Willoughby and husband Dan Baldwin have been close to Jones and his wife Tara Capp for ten years.
Willoughby set up Truly with Capp in 2016 and Jones, 52, joined as chairman in March.
The couples holiday together and Jones has a 40 per cent stake in Baldwin's TV production firm.
Willoughby is to become a brand ambassador for M&S and will replace Ant McPartlin as host of ITV's I'm A Celebrity.
A source close to Jones said last night "We wouldn't comment on his business affairs."
Tough talk 'and then we fell in love'
He joked about criticism he would get from the news media for making a comment some would consider "unpresidential" and for being so positive about the North Korean leader.
Why has President Trump given up so much?
Trump said in his mock "news anchor" voice.
"I didn't give up anything."
He noted that Kim is interested in a second meeting after their initial meeting in Singapore in June was hailed by Trump as a big step toward denuclearization of North Korea.
But denuclearization negotiations have stalled.
More than three months after the June summit in Singapore, North Korea's top diplomat Ri Yong Ho told world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly Saturday that the North doesn't see a "corresponding response" from the U.S. to North Korea's early disarmament moves.
Instead, he noted, the U.S. is continuing sanctions aimed at keeping up pressure.
Trump took a much more optimistic view in his rally speech.
"We're doing great with North Korea," he said.
"We were going to war with North Korea.
Millions of people would have been killed.
Now we have this great relationship."
He said his efforts to improve relations with Kim have brought positive results - ending rocket tests, helping free hostages and getting the remains of American servicemen returned home.
And he defended his unusual approach in talking about relations with Kim.
"It's so easy to be presidential, but instead of having 10,000 people outside trying to get into this packed arena, we'd have about 200 people standing right there," Trump said, pointing at the crowd directly in front of him.
Indonesia Tsunami and Quake Devastate an Island, Killing Hundreds
In the aftermath of the Lombok earthquake, for instance, foreign nongovernmental organizations were told they were not needed.
Even though more than 10 percent of Lombok's population had been dislocated, no national disaster was declared, a prerequisite for catalyzing international aid.
"In many cases, unfortunately, they've been very clear that they're not requesting international assistance, so it's a bit challenging," Ms. Sumbung said.
While Save the Children is putting together a team to travel to Palu, it is not yet sure whether foreign staff can work on the ground.
Mr. Sutopo, the national disaster agency spokesman, said Indonesian officials were assessing the situation in Palu to see whether international agencies would be allowed to contribute to the aid effort.
Given the earth shaking that Indonesia constantly endures, the country remains woefully underprepared for nature's wrath.
While tsunami shelters have been built in Aceh, they are not a common sight on other coastlines.
The apparent lack of a tsunami warning siren in Palu, even though a warning had been in effect, is likely to have contributed to the loss of life.
At the best of times, traveling between Indonesia's many islands is challenging.
Natural disasters make logistics even more complicated.
A hospital ship that had been stationed in Lombok to treat earthquake victims is making its way to Palu, but it will take at least three days to reach the site of the new calamity.
President Joko Widodo made improving Indonesia's tattered infrastructure a centerpiece of his election campaign, and he has lavished money on roads and railways.
But funding shortfalls have plagued Mr. Joko's administration as he faces re-election next year.
Mr. Joko is also facing pressure from lingering sectarian tensions in Indonesia, where members of the Muslim majority have embraced a more conservative form of the faith.
More than 1,000 people were killed and tens of thousands dislocated from their homes as Christian and Muslim gangs battled on the streets, using machetes, bows and arrows, and other crude weapons.
Watch: Liverpool's Daniel Sturridge dips deep equalizer vs. Chelsea
Daniel Sturridge saved Liverpool from a Premier League loss to Chelsea with a score in the 89th minute on Saturday at Stamford Bridge in London.
Sturridge received a pass from Xherdan Shaqiri while about 30 yards out from the Chelsea goal with his team trailing 1-0.
He tapped the ball to his left before scooping a shot toward the far post.
The attempt sailed high above the box as it drifted toward the right top corner of the net.
The ball eventually dropped over a leaping Kepa Arrizabalaga and fell into the net.
"It was just trying to get into that position, to get on the ball and players like Shaq always play it forward as much as possible, so I just tried to create myself as much time as possible," Sturridge told LiverpoolFC.com.
"I saw Kante coming and took one touch and didn't think about it too much and just took the shot on."
Chelsea led 1-0 at halftime after getting a score in the 25th minute from Belgian star Eden Hazard.
The Blues striker heeled a pass back to Mateo Kovacic on that play, before spinning off near midfield and sprinting into the Liverpool half.
Kovacic did a quick give-and-go at midfield.
He then fired a beautiful through ball, leading Hazard into the box.
Hazard outran the defense and finished into the far post netting with a left footed shot past Liverpool's Alisson Becker.
Liverpool battles Napoli in the group stage of the Champions League at 3 p.m. on Wednesday at Stadio San Paolo in Naples, Italy.
Chelsea faces Videoton in the UEFA Europa Leaguge at 3 p.m. on Thursday in London.
Death toll from Indonesia tsunami rises to 832
The death toll in Indonesia's earthquake and tsunami has climbed to 832, the country's disaster agency said early Sunday.
Many people were reported trapped in the rubble of buildings brought down in the 7.5 magnitude earthquake which struck Friday and triggered waves as high as 20 feet, agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho told a news conference.
The city of Palu, which has more than 380,000 people, was strewn with debris from collapsed buildings.
Police arrest man, 32, on suspicion of murder after woman is stabbed to death
A murder investigation has been launched after woman's body was found in Birkenhead, Merseyside this morning.
The 44-year-old was found at 7.55am with stab wounds on Grayson Mews on John Street, with a 32-year-old man being arrested on suspicion of murder.
Police have urged people in the area who saw or heard anything to come forward.
Detective Inspector Brian O'Hagan said: 'The investigation is in the early stages but I would appeal to anyone who was in the vicinity of John Street in Birkenhead who saw or heard anything suspicious to contact us.
I would also appeal to anyone, particularly taxi drivers, who may have captured anything on dashcam footage to contact us as they may have information which is vital to our investigation.'
A police spokesman has confirmed the woman whose body was found is local to Birkenhead and she was found inside a property.
This afternoon friends who believe they know the woman have arrived at the scene to ask questions about where she was found this morning.
Investigations are ongoing as police have said they are in the process of informing the victim's next of kin.
A taxi driver who lives in Grayson Mews has just tried to get back into his flat but is being told by police no one is allowed in or out of the building.
He was speechless when he discovered what happened.
Residents are now being told it will be hours until they are allowed back in.
A police officer was heard telling one man that the entire area is now being treated as a crime scene.
A woman appeared at the scene in tears.
She keeps repeating 'it's so awful'.
At 2pm two police vans were inside the cordon with another van just outside.
A number of officers were stood inside the cordon monitoring the block of flats.
Anyone with information is asked to DM @MerPolCC, call 101 or contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 quoting log 247 of 30th September.
Parliament's statue of Cromwell becomes latest memorial hit by 'rewriting history' row
Its banishment would be poetic justice for his Taliban-like destruction of so many of England's cultural and religious artefacts carried out by his fanatical Puritan followers.
But the Cromwell Society described Mr Crick's suggestion as "folly" and "attempting to rewrite history."
John Goldsmith, chairman of the Cromwell Society, said: "It was inevitable in the present debate about the removal of statues that the figure of Oliver Cromwell outside the Palace of Westminster would become a target.
The iconoclasm of the English civil wars was neither ordered nor carried out by Cromwell.
Perhaps the wrong Cromwell would be sacrificed for the actions of his ancestor Thomas in the previous century.
Sir William Hamo Thorneycroft's magnificent representation of Cromwell is evidence of 19th century opinion and part of the historiography of a figure who many believe is still worth celebrating.
Mr Goldsmith told The Sunday Telegraph: "Cromwell is regarded by many, perhaps more in the late 19th century than today, as a defender of parliament against external pressure, in his case of course the monarchy.
Whether that is a wholly accurate representation is the subject of continuing historical debate.
What is certain is that the conflict of the mid 17th century has shaped the subsequent development of our nation, and Cromwell is an individual recognisable figure who represents one side of that divide.
His achievements as Lord Protector are also worth celebrating and commemorating."
Killer Pig Mauls Chinese Farmer to Death
A farmer was attacked and killed by a pig in a market in southwest China, according to local media reports.
The man, identified only by his surname "Yuan," was found dead with a severed artery, covered in blood near a sty at the market in Liupanshui in Guizhou province, the South China Morning Post reported Sunday.
A pig farmer prepares to inject vaccines into pigs at a hoggery on May 30, 2005 in Xining of Qinghai Province, China.
He had reportedly travelled with his cousin from the neighboring Yunnan province Wednesday to sell 15 pigs at the market.
The following morning, his cousin found him dead, and discovered a door to a neighbouring pig sty open.
He said that in the sty was a large male pig with blood on its mouth.
A forensic examination confirmed that the 550 pound hog had mauled the farmer to death, according to the report.
"My cousin's legs were bloody and mangled," the cousin, referred to by his surname "Wu," said, as quoted by the Guiyang Evening News.
Security camera footage showed Yuan entering the market at 4.40 am Thursday to feed his pigs.
His body was found about an hour later.
The animal who killed the man did not belong to Yuan or his cousin.
A market manager told the Evening News that the pig had been locked away to prevent it attacking anyone else, while police gathered evidence at the scene.
Yuan's family and market authorities are reportedly negotiating compensation for his death.
Though rare, cases of pigs attacking humans have been recorded before.
In 2016, a pig attacked a woman and her husband at their farm in Massachusetts, leaving the man with critical injuries.
Ten years previously, a 650 pound pig pinned a Welsh farmer to his tractor until his wife scared the animal away.
After an Oregon farmer was eaten by his pigs in 2012, one Manitoba farmer told CBC News that pigs are not normally aggressive but the taste of blood can act as a "trigger."
"They're just being playful.
They're nippers, very inquisitive ... they aren't out to hurt you.
You just have to pay them the right amount of respect," he said.
Hurricane Rosa's remnants to bring widespread heavy rain to southwest US
As forecast, Hurricane Rosa is weakening as it moves over the cooler waters of the northern coast of Mexico.
However, Rosa will bring flooding rains across northern Mexico and the southwest U.S. over the coming days.
Rosa had winds of 85 mph, a Category 1 Hurricane, as of 5 a.m. Eastern time Sunday, and was located 385 miles southwest of Punta Eugenia, Mexico.
Rosa is expected to move north on Sunday.
Meanwhile, a trough is beginning to take shape over the Pacific Ocean and move east toward the West Coast of the U.S. As Rosa approaches the Baja California peninsula on Monday as a tropical storm it will begin to push deep tropical moisture northward into the southwest U.S.
Rosa will bring up to 10 inches of rain in parts of Mexico on Monday.
Then, tropical moisture interacting with the approaching trough will create widespread heavy rainfall in the Southwest over the coming days.
Locally, 1 to 4 inches of rain will cause dangerous flash flooding, debris flows and possibility landslides in the desert.
Deep tropical moisture will cause rainfall rates to approach 2 to 3 inches per hour in spots, especially in parts of southern Nevada and Arizona.
As much as 2 to 4 inches of rain is expected in parts of the Southwest, especially over much of Arizona.
Flash flooding is possible with rapidly deteriorating conditions due to the scattered nature of tropical rain.
It would be extremely ill advised to venture out into the desert on foot with the threat of tropical rainfall.
Heavy rain could cause canyons to become raging rivers and thunderstorms will bring locally gusty winds and blowing dust.
The approaching trough will bring some locally heavy rain to parts of the Southern California coastline.
Rainfall totals of over half an inch are possible, which could cause minor debris flows and slick roadways.
This would be the region's first rainfall of their wet season.
Some scattered tropical rain showers will begin to approach Arizona late Sunday and early Monday, before the rain becomes more widespread late Monday and Tuesday.
Heavy rain will spread into the Four Corners on Tuesday and last through Wednesday.
October can see some intense temperature swings across the U.S. as the Arctic gets cooler, but the tropics remain quite warm.
Sometimes this leads to dramatic changes in temperature over short distances.
There is a great example of dramatic temperature differences through the central U.S. on Sunday.
There is nearly a 20-degree temperature difference between Kansas City, Missouri, and Omaha, Nebraska, and between St. Louis and Des Moines, Iowa.
Over the next few days, lingering summer warmth will try to build and expand again.
Much of the central and eastern U.S. is expected to see a warm start to October with widespread 80s from the Southern Plains to parts of the Northeast.
New York City could reach 80 degrees on Tuesday, which would be approximately 10 degrees above average.
Our long term climate forecast is indicating high chances for above-average temperatures for the eastern U.S. through the first half of October.
More than 20 million people watched Brett Kavanaugh hearing
More than 20 million people watched Thursday's gripping testimony by Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh and the woman who accused him of a sexual assault that allegedly occurred in the 1980s, Christine Blasey Ford, on six television networks.
Meanwhile, the political standoff continued, with broadcasters interrupting regular programming for Friday's last-minute twist: an agreement engineered by Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake for the FBI to conduct a one-week investigation of the charges.
Ford told the Senate Judiciary Committee that she's 100 percent certain that Kavanaugh groped her drunkenly and tried to take off her clothes at a high school party.
Kavanaugh, in impassioned testimony, said he's 100 percent certain that it didn't happen.
It's likely that more than the 20.4 million people reported by Nielsen on Friday watched it.
The company was counting average viewership on CBS, ABC, NBC, CNN, Fox News Channel and MSNBC.
Figures weren't immediately available for other networks that showed it, including PBS, C-SPAN and the Fox Business Network.
And Nielsen usually has some trouble measuring people who watch in offices.
To put that in perspective, that's an audience size similar to that for a playoff football game or the Academy Awards.
Fox News Channel, whose opinion hosts have strongly backed Kavanaugh's appointment, led all networks with an average of 5.69 million viewers during the all-day hearing, Nielsen said.
ABC was second with 3.26 million viewers.
CBS had 3.1 million, NBC had 2.94 million, MSNBC had 2.89 million and CNN had 2.52 million, Nielsen said.
Interest remained high after the hearing.
Flake was the central figure in Friday's drama.
After the moderate Republican's office issued a statement that he would be voting in favor of Kavanaugh, he was caught be CNN and CBS cameras Friday morning being shouted at by protesters as he tried to ride an elevator to a Judiciary Committee hearing.
He stood with eyes downcast for several minutes as he was berated, televised live on CNN.
"I'm standing right here in front of you," one woman said.
"Do you think he's telling the truth to the country?
He was told, "you have power when so many women are powerless.""
Flake said that his office had issued a statement and said, before the elevator closed, that he would have more to say at the committee hearing.
The cable and broadcast networks were all covering live hours later, when the Judiciary Committee was to vote to advance Kavanaugh's nomination to the full Senate for a vote.
But Flake said he would only do so with the understanding that the FBI would look into the allegations against the nominee for the next week, which minority Democrats have been urging.
Flake was convinced in part by conversations with his friend, Democratic Sen. Chris Coons.
After a conversation with Coons and several senators afterwards, Flake made his decision.
Flake's choice had power, because it was evident Republicans would not have the votes to approve Kavanaugh without the investigation.
President Trump has opened an FBI investigation into the allegations against Kavanaugh.
British PM May accuses critics of 'playing politics' over Brexit
Prime Minister Theresa May accused critics of her plans to leave the European Union of "playing politics" with Britain's future and undermining the national interest in an interview with the Sunday Times newspaper.
Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May arrives for the Conservative Party Conference in Birmingham, Britain, September 29, 2018.
In another interview next to the one with her on the newspaper's front page, her former foreign minister Boris Johnson pressed his attack of her so-called Chequers plan for Brexit, saying a proposal that Britain and the EU should collect each other's tariffs was "entirely preposterous."
Wayde Sims shooting: Police arrest suspect Dyteon Simpson in LSU player's death
Police have arrested a suspect in the fatal shooting death of Wayde Sims, a 20-year-old basketball player at LSU.
Dyteon Simpson, 20, has been arrested and booked into prison on a second-degree murder charge, the Baton Rouge Police Department said.
Officials released video of the confrontation between Sims and Simpson, and police said Sims lost his glasses during the fight.
Police recovered the glasses from the scene and said they found Simpson's DNA on them, CBS affiliate WAFB reports.
After questioning Simpson, police said he admitted to fatally shooting Wayde.
His bond has been set at $350,000, the Advocate reports.
The East Baton Rouge Parish Coroner's Office released a preliminary report Friday, saying the cause of death is a gunshot wound to the head into the neck.
The department is crediting the Louisiana State Police fugitive task force, the state police crime lab, Southern University police and area citizens in assisting in the investigation leading to the arrest.
LSU athletic director Joe Alleva thanked area law enforcement for its "diligence and pursuit of justice."
Sims was 20 years old.
The 6-foot-6 forward grew up in Baton Rouge, where his father, Wayne, also played basketball for LSU.
He averaged 5.6 points and 2.6 rebounds a game last season.
On Friday morning, LSU basketball coach Will Wade said the team is "devastated" and "in shock" by Wayde's death.
"This is what you worry about at all times," Wade said.
Volcano spews ash on Mexico City
Ash spewing from the Popocatepetl volcano has reached the southern neighborhoods of Mexico's capital.
The National Center for Disaster Prevention warned Mexicans on Saturday to stay away from the volcano after activity picked up in the crater and it registered 183 emissions of gas and ash over 24 hours.
The center was monitoring multiple rumblings and tremors.
Images on social media showed thin layers of ash coating car windshields in neighborhoods of Mexico City such as Xochimilco.
Geophysicists have noticed an increase in activity at the volcano that sits 45 miles (72 kilometers) southeast of the capital since a 7.1-magnitude earthquake rocked central Mexico in September 2017.
The volcano known as "Don Goyo" has been active since 1994.
Police clash with Catalan separatists ahead of independence vote anniversary
Six people were arrested in Barcelona on Saturday after pro-independence protesters clashed with riot police, and as thousands joined rival demonstrations to mark the first anniversary of Catalonia's polarizing vote on secession.
A group of masked pro-separatists held back by riot police pelted them with eggs and hurled powder paint, creating dark clouds of dust in streets that would usually be thronged with tourists.
Scuffles also broke out later in the day with police using their batons to contain the fighting.
Over several hours pro-independence groups chanting "No forgetting, no forgiveness" faced off with unionist protesters shouting, "Long live Spain."
Fourteen people received treatment for minor injuries received in the protests, local press reported.
Tensions remain high in the independence-minded region a year after the October 1 referendum deemed illegal by Madrid but celebrated by separatist Catalans.
Voters chose overwhelmingly to become independent, though turnout was low with those against secession largely boycotting the vote.
According to Catalan authorities almost 1000 people were injured last year after police tried to stop the vote going ahead at polling stations across the region in violent clashes.
Pro-independence groups had camped out overnight on Friday to prevent a demonstration in support of the national police.
The demonstration went ahead but was forced to take a different route.
Narcis Termes, 68, an electrician attending the separatist protest with his wife said he was no longer hopeful about the prospects of Catalonia gaining independence.
"Last year we lived through one of our best moments.
I watched my parents cry with joy at being able to vote but now we are stuck," he said.
Despite managing a vital if narrow victory in regional elections last December, Catalan pro-independence parties have struggled to retain momentum this year with many of their best known leaders either in self imposed exile or in detention awaiting trial for their role in organizing the referendum and subsequent declaration of independence.
Joan Puig, a 42-year-old mechanic recording the protest in support of the police on his phone, said the conflict had been stoked by politicians on both sides.
"It's getting more and more tense," he said.
On Saturday, Oriol Junqueras, one of nine Catalan leaders in pre-trial jail since late last year, announced he would run in European Parliament elections next year.
"Standing as a candidate for the European elections is the best way to denounce the regression in democratic values and repression we have seen from the Spanish government," he said.
Londonderry: Men arrested after house rammed by car
Three men, aged 33, 34 and 39, have been arrested after a car was repeatedly rammed into a house in Londonderry.
The incident unfolded in Ballynagard Crescent on Thursday at about 19:30 BST.
Det Insp Bob Blemmings said damage was caused to the gates and the building itself.
A crossbow may also have been fired at the car at some point.
Menga strike gives Livingston 1-0 win over Rangers
Dolly Menga's first goal for Livingston secured victory
Promoted Livingston stunned Rangers to consign Steven Gerrard to just his second defeat in 18 games as manager of the Ibrox club.
Dolly Menga's strike proved to be the difference as Gary Holt's side moved level with Hibernian in second.
Gerrard's side remain without an away win in the Premiership this season and face leaders Hearts, who they trail by eight points, next Sunday.
Before then, Rangers host Rapid Vienna in the Europa League on Thursday.
Livingston, meanwhile, extend their unbeaten run in the division to six games, with head coach Holt still to taste defeat since replacing Kenny Miler last month.
Livingston miss chances against blunt visitors
Holt's team should have been ahead long before they scored, with their directness causing Rangers all manner of problems.
Scott Robinson broke through but dragged his effort across the face of goal, then Alan Lithgow could only direct his effort wide after sliding in to meet Craig Halkett's header across goal.
The hosts were content to let Rangers play in front of them, knowing they could trouble the visitors at set pieces.
And that was the manner in which the crucial goal came.
Rangers conceded a free-kick and Livingston worked an opening, Declan Gallagher and Robinson combining to set up Menga, who took a touch and scored from the centre of the box.
By that stage, Rangers had dominated possession but had found the home defence impenetrable and goalkeeper Liam Kelly was largely untroubled,
That pattern continued into the second half, though Alfredo Morelos did force a save from Kelly.
Scott Pittman was denied by the feet of Rangers goalkeeper Allan McGregor and Lithgow flicked wide from another Livingston set play.
Crosses continually came into the Livingston box and were continually cleared, while two penalty claims - after Halkett's challenge on substitute Glenn Middleton, and one for handball - were waved away.
'Phenomenal' from Livingston - analysis
BBC Scotland's Alasdair Lamont at the Tony Macaroni Arena
A phenomenal performance and result for Livingston.
To a man, they were excellent, continuing to exceed expectations on this upward trajectory.
Their style of play and personnel has scarcely changed since their return to the top flight, but great credit has to go to Holt for the way he has galvanised the team since his arrival.
He had so many heroes.
Captain Halkett was immense, marshalling a superbly-organised defence, while Menga kept Connor Goldson and Joe Worrall on their toes throughout.
Rangers were short of inspiration, though.
As good as they have been at times under Gerrard, they fell well short of those standards.
Their final ball was lacking - only once did they cut the home side open - and it is something of a wake-up call for Rangers, who find themselves in mid-table.
Erdogan get mixed reception in Cologne
There were smiles and blue skies on Saturday (September 29) as the leaders of Turkey and Germany met for breakast in Berlin.
It's the last day of President Erdogan's controversial visit to Germany - which is aimed at repairing relations beteen the NATO allies.
They've fallen out over issues including human rights, press freedom and Turkey's accession to the EU.
Erdogan then headed for Cologne to open a giant new mosque.
The city is home to the largest Turkish population outside Turkey.
Police cited security reasons to block a 25,000-strong crowd from gathering in front of the mosque, but plenty of supporters turned out nearby to see their president.
Hundreds of anti-Erdogan protesters - many of them Kurdish - also made their voices heard, condemning both Erdogan's policies and the German government's decision to welcome him to the country.
The dueling protests reflect the divisiveness of a visitor hailed as a hero by some German Turks and reviled as an autocrat by others.
Deptford road crash: Cyclist dies in collision with car
A cyclist has died in a collision involving a car in London.
The crash happened near the junction of Bestwood Street and Evelyn Street, a busy road in Deptford, in the south-east of the city, at about 10:15 BST.
The driver of the car stopped and paramedics attended, but the man died at the scene.
The crash comes months after another cyclist died in a hit-and-run on Childers Street, about a mile away from Saturday's crash.
The Metropolitan Police said officers were working to identify the man and inform his next-of-kin.
Road closures and bus diversions are in place and motorists have been advised to avoid the area.
Long Lartin prison: Six officers hurt in disorder
Six prison officers have been injured in a disturbance at a high security men's jail, the Prison Office has said.
Disorder broke out at HMP Long Lartin in Worcestershire at about 09:30 BST on Sunday and is ongoing.
Specialist "Tornado" officers have been brought in to deal with the disturbance, which involves eight inmates and is contained to one wing.
The officers were treated for minor facial injuries at the scene.
A Prison Service spokesperson said: "Specially trained prison staff have been deployed to deal with an ongoing incident at HMP Long Lartin.
Six members of staff have been treated for injuries.
We do not tolerate violence in our prisons, and are clear that those responsible will be referred to the police and could spend longer behind bars."
HMP Long Lartin holds more than 500 prisoners, including some of the country's most dangerous offenders.
In June it was reported that the prison's governor received hospital treatment after being attacked by a prisoner.
And in October last year riot officers were called to the prison to deal with a serious disturbance in which staff were attacked with pool balls.
Hurricane Rosa Threatening Phoenix, Las Vegas, Salt Lake City With Flash Flooding (Drought Areas May Benefit)
It's rare for a tropical depression to hit Arizona, but that's exactly what's likely to happen early happen early next week as Hurricane Rosa's remaining energy tracks across the Desert Southwest, delivering flash flooding risks.
The National Weather Service has already issued flash flood watches for Monday and Tuesday for western Arizona into southern and eastern Nevada, southeastern California and Utah, including the cities of Phoenix, Flagstaff, Las Vegas, and Salt Lake City.
Rosa is expected to take a direct path over Phoenix on Tuesday, approaching late Monday with rain.
The National Weather Service in Phoenix noted in a tweet that only "ten tropical cyclones have maintained tropical storm or depression status within 200 miles of Phoenix since 1950!
Katrina (1967) was a hurricane within 40 miles of the AZ border."
The latest National Hurricane Center models predict 2 to 4 inches of rainfall, with isolated amounts up to 6 inches in the Mogollon Rim of Arizona.
Other areas of the Desert Southwest including the central Rockies and the Great Basin are likely to get 1 to 2 inches, with isolated totals up to 4 inches possible.
For those out of flash flood risk, Rosa's rain may be a blessing since the region is drought-stricken.
Although flooding is a very serious concern, some of this rainfall will likely be beneficial since the Southwest is currently experiencing drought conditions.
According to the U.S. Drought Monitor, just over 40 percent of Arizona is experiencing at least extreme drought, the second highest category," weather.com reported.
First, Hurricane Rosa's path leads to landfall across the Baja California peninsula of Mexico.
Rosa, still at hurricane strength Sunday morning with maximum winds of 85 miles per hour, is 385 miles south of Punta Eugenia, Mexico and moving north at 12 miles per hour.
The storm is encountering cooler waters in the Pacific and therefore powering down.
Thus, it's expected to make landfall in Mexico at tropical storm strength in the afternoon or evening on Monday.
Rainfall across portions of Mexico could be heavy, posing a significant flooding risk.
"Rainfall totals of 3 to 6 inches are expected from Baja California into northwestern Sonora, with up to 10 inches possible," weather.com reported.
Rosa will then track north across Mexico as a tropical storm before reaching the Arizona border in the early morning hours Tuesday as a tropical depression, which will then track up through Arizona and into southern Utah by late Tuesday night.
"The main hazard expected from Rosa or its remnants is very heavy rainfall in Baja California, northwestern Sonora, and the U.S. Desert Southwest," the National Hurricane Center said.
These rains are expected to produce life-threatening flash flooding and debris flows in the deserts, and landslides in mountainous terrain.
Midsomer Norton attack: Four attempted murder arrests
Three teenage boys and a 20-year-old man have been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder after a 16-year-old was found with stab wounds in Somerset.
The teenage boy was found injured in the Excelsior Terrace area of Midsomer Norton, at about 04:00 BST on Saturday.
He was taken to hospital where he remains in a "stable" condition.
A 17-year-old, two 18-year-olds and a 20-year-old man were arrested overnight in the Radstock area, Avon and Somerset Police said.
Officers have appealed for anyone who may have any mobile phone footage of what happened to come forward.
Trump says Kavanaugh 'suffered, the meanness, the anger' of the Democratic Party
"A vote for Judge Kavanaugh is a vote to reject the ruthless and outrageous tactics of the Democratic Party," Trump said at a rally in Wheeling, West Virginia.
Trump said that Kavanaugh has "suffered the meanness, the anger" of the Democratic Party throughout his nomination process.
Kavanaugh testified before Congress on Thursday, forcefully and emotionally denying an allegation from Christine Blasey Ford that he sexually assaulted her decades ago when they were teenagers.
Ford also testified at the hearing about her allegation.
The President said on Saturday that the "American people saw the brilliant and quality and courage" of Kavanaugh that day.
"A vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh is a vote to confirm one of the most accomplished legal minds of our time, a jurist with a sterling record of public service," he told the crowd of West Virginia supporters.
The President obliquely referred to Kavanaugh's nomination while talking about the importance of Republican turnout in the midterm elections.
"Five weeks away from one of the most important elections in our lifetimes.
I'm not running, but I'm really running," he said.
"That's why I'm all over the place fighting for great candidates."
Trump argued that Democrats are on a mission to "resist and obstruct."
The first key procedural vote on the Senate floor on Kavanaugh's nomination is expected to take place no later than Friday, a senior GOP leadership aide has told CNN.
Hundreds killed by Indonesian quake, tsunami, with toll seen rising
At least 384 people were killed, many swept away as giant waves crashed onto beaches, when a major earthquake and tsunami hit the Indonesian island of Sulawesi, authorities said on Saturday.
Hundreds of people had gathered for a festival on the beach in the city of Palu on Friday when waves as high as six meters (18 feet) smashed onshore at dusk, sweeping many to their deaths and destroying anything in their path.
The tsunami followed a 7.5 magnitude earthquake.
"When the tsunami threat arose yesterday, people were still doing their activities on the beach and did not immediately run and they became victims," Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, the spokesman for Indonesia's disaster mitigation agency BNPB said in a briefing in Jakarta.
"The tsunami didn't come by itself, it dragged cars, logs, houses, it hit everything on land," Nugroho said, adding that the tsunami had traveled across the open sea at speeds of 800 kph (497 mph) before striking the shoreline.
Some people climbed trees to escape the tsunami and survived, he said.
Around 16,700 people were evacuated to 24 centers in Palu.
Aerial photographs released by the disaster agency showed many buildings and shops destroyed, bridges twisted and collapsed and a mosque surrounded by water.
Aftershocks continued to rock the coastal city on Saturday.
The series of earthquakes were felt in an area with 2.4 million people.
Indonesia's Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT) said in statement the energy released by Friday's massive quake was around 200 times the power of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima in World War Two.
The geography of the city, which sits at the end of a long, narrow bay, could have magnified the size of the tsunami, it said.
Nugroho described the damage as "extensive" and said thousands of houses, hospitals, shopping malls and hotels had collapsed.
Bodies of some victims were found trapped under the rubble of collapsed buildings, he said, adding 540 people were injured and 29 were missing.
Nugroho said the casualties and the damage could be greater along the coastline 300 km (190 miles) north of Palu, an area called Donggala, which is closer to the epicenter of the quake.
Communications "were totally crippled with no information" from Donggala, Nugroho said.
There are more than 300,000 people living there," the Red Cross said in a statement, adding that its staff and volunteers were heading to the affected areas.
"This is already a tragedy, but it could get much worse," it said.
The agency on Saturday was widely criticized for not informing that a tsunami had hit Palu, though officials said waves had come within the time the warning was issued.
In amateur footage shared on social media a man on the upper floor of a building can be heard shouting frantic warnings of the approaching tsunami to people on the street below.
Within minutes a wall of water crashes onto the shore, carrying away buildings and cars.
Reuters was not able to immediately authenticate the footage.
The quake and tsunami caused a major power outage that cut communications around Palu making it difficult for authorities to coordinate rescue efforts.
The military has started sending in cargo planes with aid from Jakarta and other cities, authorities said, but evacuees still badly need food and other basic necessities.
The city's airport has been reopened only for relief efforts and will remain closed until Oct.
President Joko Widodo was scheduled to visit evacuation centers in Palu on Sunday.
Indonesia Tsunami Toll Soars Above 800.
It Is Very Bad.
While World Vision's staff from Donggala have made it safely to Palu city, where employees are sheltering in tarpaulin shelters set up in the courtyard of their office, they passed scenes of devastation on the way, Mr. Doseba said.
"They told me they saw lots of houses that were destroyed," he said.
It is very bad.
Even as aid groups began the grim motions of starting the gears of disaster relief, some complained that foreign aid workers with deep expertise were being prevented from traveling to Palu.
According to Indonesian regulations, funding, supplies and staffing from overseas can only start flowing if the site of a calamity is declared a national disaster zone.
That has not happened yet.
"It's still a province level disaster," said Aulia Arriani, a spokesperson for the Indonesian Red Cross.
"Once the government says, "O.K., this is a national disaster," we can open for international assistance but there's no status yet."
As the second night fell on Palu after Friday's earthquake and tsunami, friends and family of those still missing were holding out hope that their loved ones would be the miracles that leaven the bleak story lines of natural disasters.
On Saturday, a little boy was plucked from a sewer.
On Sunday, rescuers freed a woman who had been pinned under rubble for two days with the body of her mother next to her.
Gendon Subandono, the coach of the Indonesian national paragliding team, had trained two of the missing paragliders for the Asian Games, which wrapped up earlier this month in Indonesia.
Others of those trapped at the Roa Roa Hotel, Mr. Mandagi included, were his students.
"As a senior in the paragliding field, I have my own emotional burden," he said.
Mr. Gendon recounted how, in the hours after the news of the Roa Roa Hotel collapse circulated among the paragliding community, he had desperately sent WhatsApp messages to the Palu competitors, who were taking part in the beach festival.
His messages, though, only resulted in one gray check mark, rather than a pair of blue checks.
"I think that means the messages were not delivered," he said.
Thieves take $26,750 during ATM refill at Newport on the Levee
Thieves on Friday morning stole $26,750 from a Brink's worker refilling an ATM at Newport on the Levee, according to a news release from the Newport Police Department.
The car's driver had been emptying an ATM in the entertainment complex and preparing to deliver more money, Det. Dennis McCarthy wrote in the release.
While he was occupied, another man "ran up from behind the Brink's employee" and stole a bag of money meant for delivery.
Witnesses spotted multiple suspects fleeing the scene, according to the release, but police did not specify the number involved in the incident.
Anyone with information about their identities should contact Newport police at 859-292-3680.
Kanye West: Rapper changes his name to Ye
Rapper Kanye West is changing his name - to Ye.
Announcing the change on Twitter on Saturday, he wrote: "The being formally known as Kanye West."
West, 41, has been nicknamed Ye for some time and used the moniker as the title for his eighth album, which was released in June.
The change comes ahead of his appearance on Saturday Night Live, where he is expected to launch his new album Yandhi.
He replaces singer Ariana Grande on the show who cancelled for "emotional reasons," the show's creator said.
As well as being an abbreviation of his current professional name, West has previously said the word has religious significance for him.
"I believe 'ye' is the most commonly used word in the Bible, and in the Bible it means 'you,'" West said earlier this year, discussing his album title with radio host Big Boy.
"So I'm you, I'm us, it's us.
It went from Kanye, which means the only one, to just Ye - just being a reflection of our good, our bad, our confused, everything.
The album is more of a reflection of who we are."
He is one of a number of famous rappers to change their name.
Sean Combs has been variously known as Puff Daddy, P. Diddy or Diddy, but this year announced his preference for the names Love and Brother Love.
A former West collaborator, JAY-Z, has also made do with or without a hyphen and capitals.
Mexico's AMLO vows not to use military against civilians
Mexican President-elect Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has vowed to never use military force against civilians as the country approaches the 50th anniversary of a bloody reprisal against students.
Lopez Obrador promised Saturday at Tlatelolco Plaza to "never ever use the military to repress the Mexican people."
Troops fired on a peaceful demonstration at the plaza on Oct. 2, 1968, killing as many as 300 people at a time when leftist student movements were taking root throughout Latin America.
Lopez Obrador has pledged to support young Mexicans by giving monthly subsidies to those who study and opening more free public universities.
He has said that unemployment and a lack of educational opportunities draws youth to criminal gangs.
U.S. should double A.I. funding
As China becomes more active in artificial intelligence, the U.S. should double the amount it spends on research in the field, says investor and AI practitioner Kai-Fu Lee, who has worked for Google, Microsoft and Apple.
The comments come after various parts of the U.S. government have made AI announcements, even as the U.S. overall lacks a formal AI strategy.
Meanwhile, China introduced its plan last year: it's aiming to be No.1 in AI innovation by 2030.
"Double the AI research budget would be a good start, given that all other countries are so much farther behind U.S., and we're looking for the next breakthrough in AI," said Lee.
Doubling funding could double the chances that the next big AI achievement will be made in the U.S., Lee told CNBC in an interview this week.
Lee, whose book "AI Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley and the New World Order" was published this month by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, is CEO of Sinovation Ventures, which has invested in one of the most prominent AI companies in China, Face++.
In the 1980s at Carnegie Mellon University he worked on an AI system that beat the highest-ranked American Othello player, and later he was an executive at Microsoft Research and president of Google's China branch.
Lee acknowledged previous U.S. government technology competitions like the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency's Robotics Challenge and asked when the next one would be, in order to help identify the next visionaries.
Researchers in the U.S. often have to work hard in order to win government grants, Lee said.
"It's not China that is taking away the academic leaders; it's the corporates," Lee said.
Facebook, Google and other technology companies have hired luminaries from universities to work on AI in recent years.
Lee said immigration policy changes could also help the U.S. bolster its AI efforts.
"I think green cards should automatically be offered to PhD's in AI," he said.
China's State Council issued its Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan in July 2017.
China's National Natural Science Foundation provides funding to people at academic institutions similar to the way that the National Science Foundation and other government organizations dole out money to U.S. researchers, but the quality of academic work is lower in China, Lee said.
Earlier this year the U.S. Defense Department established a Joint Artificial Intelligence Center, which is meant to involve partners from industry and academia, and the White House announced the formation of Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence.
And this month DARPA announced a $2 billion investment in an initiative called AI Next.
As for the NSF, it currently invests more than $100 million per year in AI research.
Meanwhile, U.S. legislation that sought to create a National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence has not seen action in months.
Macedonians vote in referendum on whether to change country's name
The people of Macedonia voted in a referendum on Sunday on whether to change its name to "Republic of North Macedonia," a move that would resolve a decades-old dispute with Greece which had blocked its membership bids for the European Union and NATO.
Greece, which has a province called Macedonia, maintains that its northern neighbor's name represents a claim on its territory and has vetoed its entrance into NATO and the EU.
The two governments struck a deal in June based on the proposed new name, but nationalist opponents argue the change would undermine the ethnic identity of Macedonia's Slavic majority population.
President Gjorge Ivanov has said he will not be voting in the referendum and a boycott campaign has cast doubts on whether turnout will meet the minimum 50 percent required for the referendum to be valid.
The question on the referendum ballot read: "Are you for NATO and EU membership with acceptance of the agreement with Greece."
Supporters of the name change, including Prime Minister Zoran Zaev, argue that it is a price worth paying to pursue admission into bodies such as the EU and NATO for Macedonia, one of the countries to emerge from the collapse of Yugoslavia.
"I came today to vote for the future of the country, for young people in Macedonia so they can be live freely under the umbrella of the European Union because it means safer lives for all of us," said Olivera Georgijevska, 79, in Skopje.
Although not legally binding, enough members of parliament have said they will abide by the vote's outcome to make it decisive.
The name change would requires a two-thirds majority in parliament.
The state election commission said there had been no reports of irregularities by 1 p.m.
However, turnout stood at only 16 percent, compared to 34 percent in last parliamentary election in 2016 when 66 percent of the registered voters cast their ballot.
"I came out to vote because of my children, our place is in Europe," said Gjose Tanevski, 62, a voter in the capital, Skopje.
